Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends, greetings to the
children of the Youth Club, and greetings to the children of the
La Ho La Club. Today, I, Tam Chua Ha
Quan, am standing in a very
strange, beautiful, and
vibrant space in Myanmar.
Myanmar is a country with a
Buddhist tradition; 90% of the population follows
Buddhism. And today, I, Tam Chua
Ha Quan, am standing in a space in
a restaurant
in
Myanmar that is decorated to celebrate the Western New Year. I am
also joining in
the atmosphere of
Christmas trees everywhere.
Isn't the space beautiful? It's very, very
beautiful. As a Buddhist disciple,
we can also share in the joy
of the world. The Vietnamese people
have Buddhist roots, and we usually
celebrate the Lunar New Year, but
for a long time now, especially the younger generation, we have
begun to
celebrate the Western New Year.
Therefore, December 25th,
Christmas Day, is a day when the
youth begin to celebrate.  Let's start by approaching it in a very
cheerful way. The word "Christmas" originates
from Latin, meaning "
birth." Later, people
added the word "day" to make it "birthday," but the
original
Latin word simply meant "birth."
And here, the Romans
had a festival every winter to worship the god of
agriculture. This was the most popular festival of the
Romans, stemming from a
long-standing agricultural tradition. It was
dedicated to the
god of agriculture.
This festival took place from
December 17th and ended around
December 25th each year with a
celebration of the winter solstice to mark the beginning of the
new year. So, Christmas means "
birth." "Birth" means the beginning of the
new year. If it were only the 1st,
it wouldn't be called the new year
anymore; they
celebrated from the 17th to the 25th.
The 25th is called "birth," meaning the
beginning of the new year.  The first day of the month is
already the start of the new year.
Therefore, Christmas Day, which is the beginning
of a new year, is understood in this way. So, as
Buddhists, we can comfortably celebrate
Christmas, right?
Because everyone wants to
welcome a wonderful new year.
Here, the Lord's Heart of the Temple would
like to read some information: In
312, the Roman emperor abandoned polytheism and converted to
Christianity. He abolished the previous festival celebrating the sun god, the festival of the sun god. He replaced it with the celebration of Jesus' birth. In 354, Pope Liberius
declared December as the official day
to celebrate the birth of Jesus.
Therefore, this is just a
replacement by an emperor with authority and
a pope of the Christian faith. That's
why...
People may choose a particular day to celebrate the
birth of Jesus, but we can
choose any day that suits us. So,
if you have friends who are
Christian, and they
celebrate their founder on this day, we're
still friends, and we share in their joy.
That's how we share in your joy. If you're happy, we congratulate you and wish you happiness and good fortune. And for
us Buddhist disciples,
we also share in the
joy of welcoming the new year, hoping for a
good year ahead. But this is the
Western New Year, okay? Then we can
decorate... This is the name
of the hotel... We can also
decorate and name
our shop, right? Now,
we wish each other a Happy
New Year, and then we'll share verses from the
Dhammapada, the teachings of the Buddha, and in
Vietnam, especially with
Emperor Tran Nhan Tong...  We bring
the teachings of the Buddha and
hang them on our Christmas tree. Then
we pass them on to our friends or
anyone who comes to us to read. When we read
those sayings, those sayings
about karma and those beautiful teachings, good things
will arise in our hearts,
and we will welcome the
new year with such good things, and then
all good things will come to us.
So today, I, Han Quan, am sharing with you, dear
friends
and the children in the
La Ho La Youth Club, that the
Buddhists in Myanmar decorated their Christmas trees
very beautifully. They wanted to share
in the joy of the world. And
now, I would like to share with you, dear friends and
the children in the
La Ho La Youth Club, a very
beautiful song. From now on, we
can decorate our Christmas trees and play
this song. This song is very suitable in both
content and meaning. Wishing you all, dear
friends and the
children in the Youth Club, a very beautiful song.  Happy New Year! May you have a
peaceful and happy new year, always joyful!
[Music]
Spring is coming, a new year is about to begin,
children, study hard! There
are red and green gift boxes, white,
purple, and yellow gift boxes, the fairy godmother brings
gifts from mom. Open the door, open the
door! For the dear fairy godmother,
welcome another
new year! Open the door, open the door! Happy New Year! Happy New Year! May
everything be peaceful and joyful, following the footsteps of
Buddha. Open the door,
welcome the dear fairy godmother!
Welcome another new year, may everything be peaceful and joyful, following the teachings of Buddha Shakyamuni. Open the door, welcome the dear fairy godmother! Welcome another new year, may
everything be peaceful and
joyful, following the teachings of Buddha Shakyamuni. Happy New Year!
Happy New Year! May joy fill every
place, welcoming the dear fairy godmother!
[Music]
1 2 3 Welcome to the new year! Happy New Year!
[Applause]
[Music]
Year
K